---
title: "About States"
layout: single
excerpt: "The basic building block of a ui-router application is a state."
sitemap: true
permalink: /guide/states
---

{% include toc icon="columns" title="UI-Router States" %}

UI-Router applications behave like a [state machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/state_machine).

Think about each feature of an application as a set of states.
Only one state can be active at one time.
The user can transition from one state to another, to activate a different feature of the application.

## UI-Router States

The basic building block of a UI-Router application is a UI-Router state.  
A UI-Router state usually corresponds to a feature (or place) in the application in terms of the overall UI and navigation. 
Some examples of states might be `dashboard`, `messages`, `shoppingcart`, or `blogentry`. 

A state is a javascript object which has specific properties.
Those properties define the functionality of the application when that state is active.

<div class="notice--info" markdown="1">
#### State Properties

name
:   A name for the state, providing a way to refer to the state

views
:   How the UI will look and behave

url
:   What the browser's URL will be

params
:   Parameter values that the state requires (such as `blog-post-id`)

resolve
:   The actual data the state requires (often fetched, asynchronously, from the backend using a parameter value)
</div>


## Nested States

Unlike states in a traditional [*state machine*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/state_machine),  UI-Router 
states can be nested inside each other.  A parent state can have multiple children, forming a tree of states.  

Child states can be used to drill down from a more general feature to more specific one, or to implement
a master/detail pattern.  For instance, you might have a parent state called `contacts` which defines
the contacts module, and renders a list of all the contacts. 

<div class="notice--info" markdown="1">
#### Nested views

The child state's view usually renders inside a viewport that the parent state created.
This is referred to as Nested Views
</div>

Then, you might have two child states `contacts.contact` (to view a specific contact's details) 
and `contacts.new` (to create a new contact). These substates share the common parent state 
`contacts` and inherit data and behavior from the parent.  They are rendered inside the UI for the
parent state.

<video controls="controls" autoplay loop>
  <source src="/assets/about/contacts_states.mov.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  <source src="/assets/about/contacts_states.mov.webm" type="video/webm">
</video>

<div class="notice--info" markdown="1">
#### State-based approach

UI-Router's approach to applications as a tree of states encourages you to think about your application's as a hierarchy of functionality.
The tree defines the application's functionality structure.
The URL and views (i.e., the rendered tree of components in the DOM) are artifacts of the active state.

#### Optional Urls

Although states _generally have URLs_, they are optional.

You might create some child states without URLs, if it doesn't make sense to bookmark those child states.
The state machine transitions between url-less states as usual, but does not update the url when complete
You still get all the other benefits of a state transition such as parameters, resolve, and lifecycle hooks.

#### Optional Views

Although states _generally have views_, they are optional.

You might create a parent state for the sole purpose of adding data or behaviors to a branch of your application.  
For instance, you might create a state called `admin` and then child states for each administration function in your app.
The parent `admin` state could be used to restrict access to the entire tree of child states, but provide no UI itself.
</div>


## Transitions

If the app's current state is `contacts` and the user wants to switch to the `prefs` state, 
the UI-Router state machine creates and runs a Transition from the `contacts` state to the `prefs` state.

### Atomic 

These transitions are essentially [atomic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atomicity_(database_systems)).
When transitioning from `contacts` to `prefs`, either the *entire transition succeeds* and the application's 
current state is now `prefs`, or the *entire transition fails* and the application remains in the `contacts` state.

### Lifecycle

Transitions have a lifecycle, starting at Transition creation and completing with either success or failure.
That lifecycle is exposed to the application developer as a set of transition hooks.
The hooks allow you to tap into each stage of the Transition and cancel or alter the Transition.

To learn more about transition hooks, read the [Transitions Guide](transitions) and the in depth API documentation for 
[TransitionService](/docs/latest/classes/transition.transitionservice.html).

