_guide/100. ng1-migration-to-1.0-from-legacy.md, before:

---
title: "UI-Router 1.0 Migration"
layout: single
excerpt: "This guide details how to migrate a legacy Angular 1 UI-Router app from 0.x to 1.0"
sitemap: true
permalink: /guide/ng1/migrate-to-1_0
---

{% include toc icon="columns" title="UI-Router 1.0 Migration" %}

UI-Router legacy (version 0.x.x) has been the defacto standard for routing in Angular 1 applications.
UI-Router 1.0.0+ offers significant benefits over the legacy version.


# New Features

## Route to component

In legacy UI-Router, a state's view consisted of a template and a controller.
The industry, however, has embraced a component based paradigm.

UI-Router 1.0 routes directly to an Angular 1.5 `.component()`.

See the [`component:`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1viewdeclaration.html#component) docs
and the [`bindings:`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1viewdeclaration.html#bindings) docs.

## State Hook: `redirectTo`

UI-Router 1.0 adds the `redirectTo` property to a state definition.

A common feature request has been to define the default substate of some state. 
When a user tries to activate that state, the Transition will be redirected to the substate found in the `redirectTo:` property.

This property can redirect to any state, not just substates.
{: .notice-info}

This property can be a function and can return a promise for an asynchronous redirect.
{: .notice-info}

See the [`redirectTo:`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/state.statedeclaration.html#redirectto) docs.

## View Hook: `uiCanExit`

We've added a view hook for controllers to determine if their state can be exited or not.
This hook is useful to prompt for confirmation before exiting a screen with "dirty" information, for instance.

If the state that the view belongs to is going to be exited during a Transition, the hook on the controller is invoked.
Since it is a Transition Hook, it supports asynchronous callbacks (you could use a ui-bootstrap confirmation `$modal`, or check something on the server, if needed).

See the [`uiCanExit`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1controller.html#uicanexit) docs

## Dynamic Parameters

Normally, when a parameter value changes, it causes the state to be reloaded (exited and then re-entered).
In contrast, when a dynamic parameter changes, it does not cause the state to be reloaded.

This can be useful, e.g., on a search state to fetch new search results without reloading the state or views.

See the [ParamDeclaration](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/params.paramdeclaration.html#dynamic)  docs
and the [uiOnParamsChanged](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1controller.html#uionparamschanged) docs.

## Transition Hooks

Transition Hooks allow a developer to hook into the Transition lifecycle, and modify the Transition's outcome.

In UI-Router legacy, people used the `$stateChangeStart`/`$stateChangeSuccess` events and `resolve` to handle concerns like redirects or authentication.

Transition Hooks are a huge improvement over the events.

Unlike the events, they fully embrace asynchronous processing, allow and dependency injection of resolves and services,
support first class Transiton redirects, and can target certain Transitions functionally, or declaratively using a criteria object. 

See the [TransitionService](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/transition.transitionservice.html) docs
for more details on how to register hooks.
    
## Transition Object

Instead of an endless list of parameters as in the state events of 0.2.x, all transition details are now 
fully encapsulated in the Transition object.
You can inspect parameters, origin and destination states, resolves, and trace back transition redirections.

See the [Transition](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/transition.transition-1.html) docs.

## Resolve policy

In UI-Router legacy, all resolves for a transition were processed at the same time when the Transition starts.
This could cause problems because resolves could be fetched for a state that had not yet been entered.

UI-Router 1.0 waits to fetch a state's resolves until that state is being entered.

However a state may declare a resolve as "EAGER" to cause it to be fetched when the Transition starts if desired.

See the [resolvePolicy:](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/state.statedeclaration.html#resolvepolicy) docs
and the [ResolvePolicy](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/resolve.resolvepolicy.html) docs.

## UI-Router visualizer

The new Transition pipeline and hooks enabled us to create the UI-Router Visualizer.

The State Visualizer provides a graphical view of the UI-Router State Tree, highlighting the active state.
A state selector allows a developer to transition between the states when developing.

The Transition Visualizer shows a timeline of all UI-Router transitions.
Each Transition's status (running/success/failure/ignored) is color coded.
The details of each Transition (to state/from state/parameters/resolve data) may be inspected.

See the [Visualizer project homepage](https://github.com/ui-router/visualizer) for details on how to add this to your app.

# Full Rewrite

We completely rewrote the internal implementations of much of the UI-Router code base.
This has resulted in a more robust, more flexible design, which addressed many of the community’s biggest requests and most pressing concerns.

The entire codebase has been converted to Typescript, enabling explicit API parameter types.

We've split out the UI-Router core code and made it framework agnostic.
This allowed us to quickly implement UI-Router for Angular 2 and UI-Router for React.

# Breaking changes

Despite the massive refactor, we've managed to retain almost 100% public API compatibility with 0.2.x.

However, certain breaking changes were necessary to enable the new design.
Each known breaking change is listed here, as well as how to migrate your code.

## State Change Events

All state events, (i.e. `$stateChange*` and friends) are now deprecated and disabled by default.
Instead of listening for events, use the Transition Hook API.

**Migration example 1**

This example prints debug information to the console for every transition.

```js
// Legacy example
app.run(function($rootScope, SpinnerService) {
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeStart', function(evt, toState, toParams, fromState, fromParams) {
    console.log("$stateChangeStart " + fromState.name + JSON.stringify(fromParams) + " -> " + toState.name + JSON.stringify(toParams));
  });
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeSuccess', function() {
    console.log("$stateChangeSuccess " + fromState.name + JSON.stringify(fromParams) + " -> " + toState.name + JSON.stringify(toParams));
  });
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeError', function() {
    console.log("$stateChangeError " + fromState.name + JSON.stringify(fromParams) + " -> " + toState.name + JSON.stringify(toParams));
  });
})
```

UI-Router 1.0 includes a Trace service.
Call [Trace.enable](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/trace.trace-1.html#enable) to enable TRANSITION tracing.

```js
// Migrate to: UI-Router 1.0 Trace service
app.run(function($trace) {
  $trace.enable('TRANSITION');
})
```

**Migration example 2**

This example enables a graphical spinner while a transition is running.

```js
// Legacy example
app.service('SpinnerService', function() {
  var count = 0;
  return {
    transitionStart: function() { if (++count > 0) showSpinner(); },
    transitionEnd: function() { if (--count <= 0) hideSpinner(); },
  }
});
  
app.run(function($rootScope, SpinnerService) {
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeStart', function() {
    SpinnerService.transitionStart();
  });
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeSuccess', function() {
    SpinnerService.transitionEnd();
  });
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeError', function() {
    SpinnerService.transitionEnd();
  });
})
```

The Transition object has a [`promise`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/transition.transition-1.html#promise) 
property which is resolved or rejected when the transition is complete.
This helps to keep parity between the start and end of an individual transition.

```js
// Migrate to: UI-Router 1.0 Transition Hook
app.run(function($transitions) {
  $transitions.onStart({ }, function(trans) {
    var SpinnerService = trans.injector.get('SpinnerService');
    SpinnerService.transitionStart();
    trans.promise.finally(SpinnerService.transitionEnd);
  });
})
```

**Migration example 3**

This example shows a "require authentication" workflow.
If the state change (Transition) is going to auth.*, synchronously check if the user is authenticated.
If they are not, force the user to log in.

```js
// Legacy example
app.run(function($rootScope, AuthService, $state) {
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeStart', function(evt, toState, toParams, fromState, fromParams) {
    if (toState.name.indexOf("auth.") === 0) {
      if (!AuthService.isAuthenticated()) {
        evt.preventDefault();
        $state.go('login');
      }
  });
})
```


```js
// Migrate to: UI-Router 1.0 Transition Hook
app.run(function($transitions) {
  $transitions.onStart({ to: 'auth.**' }, function(trans) {
    var auth = trans.injector().get('AuthService')
    if (!auth.isAuthenticated()) {
      // User isn't authenticated. Redirect to a new Target State
      return trans.router.stateService.target('login');
    }
  });
})
```

**$stateChange event polyfill**

To ease your migration, we've included a polyfill that re-enables the `$stateChangeStart` angular events.
The polyfill is [implemented as a Transition Hook](https://github.com/angular-ui/ui-router/blob/70a237a/src/ng1/legacy/stateEvents.ts#L272).

To use the polyfill, include the `release/stateEvents.js` file, then add an angular module dependency on `ui.router.state.events` in your application.

See [Deprecated State Events](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/modules/ng1_state_events.html) documentation for more details.

## onEnter/onExit return value

Return values for onEnter/onExit hooks are now meaningful.

An onEnter/onExit declared on a state is processed as a standard Transition Hook.
The [return value of a hook](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/modules/transition.html#hookresult) may alter a transition.

To be safe, "implicit return" users (i.e., ES6 arrow functions or CoffeeScript) should 
either add an explicit `return` to the onEnter/onExit expression, or  to stop it from returning a meaningful value.

```js
.state('foo', {
  // this arrow function's return value would be processed.
  // it might have returned 'false' and cancel the transition,
  // or returned some promise and delayed the transition. oops.
  // onEnter: (MyService) => MyService.doThing() 
  
  // Change from an arrow expression to a block by wrapping in { }.
  // The arrow no longer returns a value.  nice.
  onEnter: (MyService) => { MyService.doThing(); }
});   
```

<div class="notice--info" markdown="1">
Note: Normally, global [State Hook Functions](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/transition.transitionstatehookfn.html) 
are not injected.  They always receive the [Transition](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/transition.transition-1.html)
as the first argument and the [State context](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/state.state-1.html)
as the second argument.

However, for backwards compatibility in Angular 1 only, [onEnter](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1statedeclaration.html#onenter)
/ [onRetain](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1statedeclaration.html#onretain)
/ [onExit](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1statedeclaration.html#onexit)
hooks that are *declared on a state* are still injected, just as in legacy code.  

To inject the `Transition`, use `$transition$`. 
To inject the `State` context, use `$state$`.
</div>

## CommonJS module name

Because UI-Router uses ES6 exports (via Typescript), CommonJS users can no longer `require` the module name using the default export.

We recommend either using an ES6 default import, or switching your `require` to this:

```js
var uiRouter = require('angular-ui-router').default
var app = angular.module('myApp', [uiRouter]);
```

## Non-Optional Path Parameters

In UI-Router legacy, a parameter found in the URL path was optional.
If the parameter was not found in the URL, it would match the empty string.

In UI-Router 1.0, parameters are non-optional by default.
If you try to navigate to a URL with a missing path parameter, you'll get an error message:
`"Param values not valid for state 'foo'"`

To make a path parameter optional again, specify a default value.

```js
$stateProvider.state('foo', {
  url: '/foo/:someOptionalParam',
  params: {
    someOptionalParam: ""
  }
});
```

See the [`params:`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/state.statedeclaration.html#params) docs
and [`ParamDeclaration`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/params.paramdeclaration.html) docs

## LAZY resolves

In UI-Router legacy, all resolves were fetched ASAP when the transition started. 
Now, resolves are LAZY by default, which means they are not fetched until their state is being Entered.

This means that resolves for parent states are fetched before resolves for child states.

To make a resolve fetch when the transition starts, declare it as an 
[`EAGER`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/resolve.resolvepolicy.html#when) resolve.

```js
$stateProvider.state('foo.bar.baz', {
  resolve: {
    myEagerResolve: function(MyService) {
      return MyService.fetchThings();
    }
  },
  resolvePolicy: {
    myEagerResolve: { when: 'EAGER' }
  }
});
```

See the [`resolvePolicy:`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/state.statedeclaration.html#resolvepolicy) docs.

## Default Error Handler

In UI-Router legacy, users often complained that resolves would "swallow errors".
The errors were output as a `$stateChangeError` event, but applications sometimes didn't listen to the event.

In UI-Router 1.0, we've added a default error handler.
When a call to [`$state.go()`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/state.stateservice.html#go) fails, we pass the error to 
[`StateService.defaultErrorHandler`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/state.stateservice.html#defaulterrorhandler).

The built-in `defaultErrorHandler` prints the error to the console. 
Because of this, errors that were silent in your legacy app may start making some noise in the console.

To revert this behavior, or customize it, provide your own custom `defaultErrorHandler` implementation.

```js
app.config(function($stateProvider) {
  window.myAppErrorLog = [];
  $stateProvider.defaultErrorHandler(function(error) {
    // This is a naive example of how to silence the default error handler.
    window.myAppErrorLog.push(error);
  });
})
```

## Template Required

Templates (or a component) are now required for all views.

If (for any reason) your state doesn't really need a template, use an empty one like so:

```js
$stateProvider.state('notemplate', {
  template: '<!-- -->'
})
```

## Prototypal inherited `.data`

This is technically a breaking change in 0.2.16, but is worth mentioning.
The State [`.data` property](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/state.statedeclaration.html#data)
inherits data from its parent state(s). 

In 0.2.15 and prior, properties from the parent state's `data` object were copied to the child state's `data` object when the state was registered.
If the parent state's `data` object changed at runtime, the children didn't relect the change.

In 0.2.16+, we switched to prototypal inheritance.
Changes to the parent `data` object are reflected in the child.

However, you can no longer test if the `data` object has a parent state property using `dataObj.hasOwnProperty()`.

```js
// Legacy code can check for hasOwnProperty
app.run(function ($rootScope) {
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeStart', function(evt, toState) {
    if (!toState.data) return;
    if (toState.data.hasOwnProperty('auth') && toState.data.auth === true) {
      // do authy stuff
    }
    Object.keys(toState.data, function(key) {
      console.log('data key: " + key + " = " + toState.data[key]);
    });
  });
});
```

```js
// 0.2.16+ can't use hasOwnProperty to check for parent properties
app.run(function ($rootScope) {
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeStart', function(evt, toState) {
    if (!toState.data) return;
    // Access directly
    if (toState.data.auth === true) {
      // do authy stuff
    }
    // Prototypal properties not enumerable using Object.keys()
    for (var key in toState.data) {
      console.log('data key: " + key + " = " + toState.data[key]);
    });
  });
});
```

## Resolve `this` binding

Resolve no longer binds `this` to the state object.

No workaround provided.

## Dropping support for IE8

No workaround provided.

Commit message:

Add linkjuice clickable headers. Update ng1 migration guide.  Update TOC scrollspy to expand/collapse on long TOCs

_guide/100. ng1-migration-to-1.0-from-legacy.md, after:

---
title: "Guide: UI-Router 1.0 Migration"
layout: single
excerpt: "This guide details how to migrate a legacy Angular 1 UI-Router app from 0.x to 1.0"
sitemap: true
permalink: /guide/ng1/migrate-to-1_0
---

{% include toc classes="collapsible" icon="columns" title="UI-Router 1.0 Migration" %}

UI-Router legacy (version 0.x.x) has been the defacto standard for flexible routing in Angular 1 applications.
UI-Router 1.0.0+ offers significant benefits over the legacy version.

We completely rewrote the internals of much of the UI-Router code base.
This has resulted in a more robust, more flexible design, which addressed many of the community’s biggest requests and concerns.

The entire codebase has been converted to Typescript, enabling explicit API parameter types.

We've split out the [UI-Router core code](https://npmcdn.com/ui-router-core/) and made it framework agnostic.
This allowed us to quickly implement [UI-Router for Angular 2](/ng2) and [UI-Router for React](/react).

---

In this guide, we'll cover the [new features](#new-features) in UI-Router.
Then, we'll cover all known [breaking changes](#breaking-changes) and the new approach, or workarounds.

# New Features

## Route to component

In legacy UI-Router, a state's view consisted of a template and a controller.
The industry, however, has embraced a component based paradigm.

UI-Router 1.0 routes directly to an Angular 1.5 `.component()`.

Read our [Route to Component Guide](/guide/ng1/route-to-component) for more.

See also the [`component:`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1viewdeclaration.html#component) docs
and the [`bindings:`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1viewdeclaration.html#bindings) docs.

## State Hook: `redirectTo`

UI-Router 1.0 adds the `redirectTo` property to a state definition.

A common feature request has been to define the default substate of some state. 
When a user tries to activate that state, the Transition will be redirected to the substate found in the `redirectTo:` property.

This property can redirect to any state, not just substates.
{: .notice-info}

This property can be a function and can return a promise for an asynchronous redirect.
{: .notice-info}

See the [`redirectTo:`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/state.statedeclaration.html#redirectto) docs.

## View Hook: `uiCanExit`

We've added a view hook for controllers to determine if their state can be exited or not.
This hook is useful to prompt for confirmation before exiting a screen with "dirty" information, for instance.

If the state that the view belongs to is going to be exited during a Transition, the hook on the controller is invoked.
Since it is a Transition Hook, it supports asynchronous callbacks (you could use a ui-bootstrap confirmation `$modal`, or check something on the server, if needed).

See the [`uiCanExit`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1controller.html#uicanexit) docs

## Dynamic Parameters

Normally, when a parameter value changes, it causes the state to be reloaded (exited and then re-entered).
In contrast, when a dynamic parameter changes, it does not cause the state to be reloaded.

This can be useful, e.g., on a search state to fetch new search results without reloading the state or views.

See the [ParamDeclaration](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/params.paramdeclaration.html#dynamic)  docs
and the [uiOnParamsChanged](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1controller.html#uionparamschanged) docs.

## Transition Hooks

Transition Hooks allow a developer to hook into the Transition lifecycle, and modify the Transition's outcome.

In UI-Router legacy, people used the `$stateChangeStart`/`$stateChangeSuccess` events and `resolve` to handle concerns like redirects or authentication.

Transition Hooks are a huge improvement over the events.

Unlike the events, they fully embrace asynchronous processing, allow and dependency injection of resolves and services,
support first class Transiton redirects, and can target certain Transitions functionally, or declaratively using a criteria object. 

See the [TransitionService](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/transition.transitionservice.html) docs
for more details on how to register hooks.
    
## Transition Object

Instead of an endless list of parameters as in the state events of 0.2.x, all transition details are now 
fully encapsulated in the Transition object.
You can inspect parameters, origin and destination states, resolves, and trace back transition redirections.

See the [Transition](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/transition.transition-1.html) docs.

## Resolve policy

In UI-Router legacy, all resolves for a transition were processed at the same time when the Transition starts.
This could cause problems because resolves could be fetched for a state that had not yet been entered.

UI-Router 1.0 waits to fetch a state's resolves until that state is being entered.

However a state may declare a resolve as "EAGER" to cause it to be fetched when the Transition starts if desired.

See the [resolvePolicy:](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/state.statedeclaration.html#resolvepolicy) docs
and the [ResolvePolicy](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/resolve.resolvepolicy.html) docs.

## UI-Router visualizer

The new Transition pipeline and hooks enabled us to create the UI-Router Visualizer.

The State Visualizer provides a graphical view of the UI-Router State Tree, highlighting the active state.
A state selector allows a developer to transition between the states when developing.

The Transition Visualizer shows a timeline of all UI-Router transitions.
Each Transition's status (running/success/failure/ignored) is color coded.
The details of each Transition (to state/from state/parameters/resolve data) may be inspected.

See the [Visualizer project homepage](https://github.com/ui-router/visualizer) for details on how to add this to your app.

# Breaking changes

Despite the massive refactor, we've managed to retain almost 100% public API compatibility with 0.2.x.

However, certain breaking changes were necessary to enable the new design.
Each known breaking change is listed here, as well as how to migrate your code.

## State Change Events

All state events, (i.e. `$stateChange*` and friends) are now deprecated and disabled by default.
Instead of listening for events, use the Transition Hook API.

**Migration example 1**

This example prints debug information to the console for every transition.

```js
// Legacy example
app.run(function($rootScope, SpinnerService) {
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeStart', function(evt, toState, toParams, fromState, fromParams) {
    console.log("$stateChangeStart " + fromState.name + JSON.stringify(fromParams) + " -> " + toState.name + JSON.stringify(toParams));
  });
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeSuccess', function() {
    console.log("$stateChangeSuccess " + fromState.name + JSON.stringify(fromParams) + " -> " + toState.name + JSON.stringify(toParams));
  });
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeError', function() {
    console.log("$stateChangeError " + fromState.name + JSON.stringify(fromParams) + " -> " + toState.name + JSON.stringify(toParams));
  });
})
```

UI-Router 1.0 includes a Trace service.
Call [Trace.enable](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/trace.trace-1.html#enable) to enable TRANSITION tracing.

```js
// Migrate to: UI-Router 1.0 Trace service
app.run(function($trace) {
  $trace.enable('TRANSITION');
})
```

**Migration example 2**

This example enables a graphical spinner while a transition is running.

```js
// Legacy example
app.service('SpinnerService', function() {
  var count = 0;
  return {
    transitionStart: function() { if (++count > 0) showSpinner(); },
    transitionEnd: function() { if (--count <= 0) hideSpinner(); },
  }
});
  
app.run(function($rootScope, SpinnerService) {
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeStart', function() {
    SpinnerService.transitionStart();
  });
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeSuccess', function() {
    SpinnerService.transitionEnd();
  });
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeError', function() {
    SpinnerService.transitionEnd();
  });
})
```

The Transition object has a [`promise`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/transition.transition-1.html#promise) 
property which is resolved or rejected when the transition is complete.
This helps to keep parity between the start and end of an individual transition.

```js
// Migrate to: UI-Router 1.0 Transition Hook
app.run(function($transitions) {
  $transitions.onStart({ }, function(trans) {
    var SpinnerService = trans.injector.get('SpinnerService');
    SpinnerService.transitionStart();
    trans.promise.finally(SpinnerService.transitionEnd);
  });
})
```

**Migration example 3**

This example shows a "require authentication" workflow.
If the state change (Transition) is going to auth.*, synchronously check if the user is authenticated.
If they are not, force the user to log in.

```js
// Legacy example
app.run(function($rootScope, AuthService, $state) {
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeStart', function(evt, toState, toParams, fromState, fromParams) {
    if (toState.name.indexOf("auth.") === 0) {
      if (!AuthService.isAuthenticated()) {
        evt.preventDefault();
        $state.go('login');
      }
  });
})
```


```js
// Migrate to: UI-Router 1.0 Transition Hook
app.run(function($transitions) {
  $transitions.onStart({ to: 'auth.**' }, function(trans) {
    var auth = trans.injector().get('AuthService')
    if (!auth.isAuthenticated()) {
      // User isn't authenticated. Redirect to a new Target State
      return trans.router.stateService.target('login');
    }
  });
})
```

**$stateChange event polyfill**

To ease your migration, we've included a polyfill that re-enables the `$stateChangeStart` angular events.
The polyfill is [implemented as a Transition Hook](https://github.com/angular-ui/ui-router/blob/70a237a/src/ng1/legacy/stateEvents.ts#L272).

To use the polyfill, include the `release/stateEvents.js` file, then add an angular module dependency on `ui.router.state.events` in your application.

See [Deprecated State Events](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/modules/ng1_state_events.html) documentation for more details.

## onEnter/onExit return value

Return values for onEnter/onExit hooks are now meaningful.

An onEnter/onExit declared on a state is processed as a standard Transition Hook.
The [return value of a hook](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/modules/transition.html#hookresult) may alter a transition.

To be safe, "implicit return" users (i.e., ES6 arrow functions or CoffeeScript) should 
either add an explicit `return` to the onEnter/onExit expression, or  to stop it from returning a meaningful value.

```js
.state('foo', {
  // this arrow function's return value would be processed.
  // it might have returned 'false' and cancel the transition,
  // or returned some promise and delayed the transition. oops.
  // onEnter: (MyService) => MyService.doThing() 
  
  // Change from an arrow expression to a block by wrapping in { }.
  // The arrow no longer returns a value.  nice.
  onEnter: (MyService) => { MyService.doThing(); }
});   
```

<div class="notice--info" markdown="1">
Note: Normally, global [State Hook Functions](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/transition.transitionstatehookfn.html) 
are not injected.  They always receive the [Transition](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/transition.transition-1.html)
as the first argument and the [State context](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/state.state-1.html)
as the second argument.

However, for backwards compatibility in Angular 1 only, [onEnter](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1statedeclaration.html#onenter)
/ [onRetain](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1statedeclaration.html#onretain)
/ [onExit](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng1.ng1statedeclaration.html#onexit)
hooks that are *declared on a state* are still injected, just as in legacy code.  

To inject the `Transition`, use `$transition$`. 
To inject the `State` context, use `$state$`.
</div>

## CommonJS module name

Because UI-Router uses ES6 exports (via Typescript), CommonJS users can no longer `require` the module name using the default export.

We recommend either using an ES6 default import, or switching your `require` to this:

```js
var uiRouter = require('angular-ui-router').default
var app = angular.module('myApp', [uiRouter]);
```

## Non-Optional Path Parameters

In UI-Router legacy, a parameter found in the URL path was optional.
If the parameter was not found in the URL, it would match the empty string.

In UI-Router 1.0, parameters are non-optional by default.
If you try to navigate to a URL with a missing path parameter, you'll get an error message:
`"Param values not valid for state 'foo'"`

To make a path parameter optional again, specify a default value.

```js
$stateProvider.state('foo', {
  url: '/foo/:someOptionalParam',
  params: {
    someOptionalParam: ""
  }
});
```

See the [`params:`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/state.statedeclaration.html#params) docs
and [`ParamDeclaration`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/params.paramdeclaration.html) docs

## LAZY resolves

In UI-Router legacy, all resolves were fetched ASAP when the transition started. 
Now, resolves are LAZY by default, which means they are not fetched until their state is being Entered.

This means that resolves for parent states are fetched before resolves for child states.

To make a resolve fetch when the transition starts, declare it as an 
[`EAGER`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/resolve.resolvepolicy.html#when) resolve.

```js
$stateProvider.state('foo.bar.baz', {
  resolve: {
    myEagerResolve: function(MyService) {
      return MyService.fetchThings();
    }
  },
  resolvePolicy: {
    myEagerResolve: { when: 'EAGER' }
  }
});
```

See the [`resolvePolicy:`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/state.statedeclaration.html#resolvepolicy) docs.

## Default Error Handler

In UI-Router legacy, users often complained that resolves would "swallow errors".
The errors were output as a `$stateChangeError` event, but applications sometimes didn't listen to the event.

In UI-Router 1.0, we've added a default error handler.
When a call to [`$state.go()`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/state.stateservice.html#go) fails, we pass the error to 
[`StateService.defaultErrorHandler`](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/state.stateservice.html#defaulterrorhandler).

The built-in `defaultErrorHandler` prints the error to the console. 
Because of this, errors that were silent in your legacy app may start making some noise in the console.

To revert this behavior, or customize it, provide your own custom `defaultErrorHandler` implementation.

```js
app.config(function($stateProvider) {
  window.myAppErrorLog = [];
  $stateProvider.defaultErrorHandler(function(error) {
    // This is a naive example of how to silence the default error handler.
    window.myAppErrorLog.push(error);
  });
})
```

## Template Required

Templates (or a component) are now required for all views.

If (for any reason) your state doesn't really need a template, use an empty one like so:

```js
$stateProvider.state('notemplate', {
  template: '<!-- -->'
})
```

## Prototypal inherited `.data`

This is technically a breaking change in 0.2.16, but is worth mentioning.
The State [`.data` property](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/state.statedeclaration.html#data)
inherits data from its parent state(s). 

In 0.2.15 and prior, properties from the parent state's `data` object were copied to the child state's `data` object when the state was registered.
If the parent state's `data` object changed at runtime, the children didn't relect the change.

In 0.2.16+, we switched to prototypal inheritance.
Changes to the parent `data` object are reflected in the child.

However, you can no longer test if the `data` object has a parent state property using `dataObj.hasOwnProperty()`.

```js
// Legacy code can check for hasOwnProperty
app.run(function ($rootScope) {
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeStart', function(evt, toState) {
    if (!toState.data) return;
    if (toState.data.hasOwnProperty('auth') && toState.data.auth === true) {
      // do authy stuff
    }
    Object.keys(toState.data, function(key) {
      console.log('data key: " + key + " = " + toState.data[key]);
    });
  });
});
```

```js
// 0.2.16+ can't use hasOwnProperty to check for parent properties
app.run(function ($rootScope) {
  $rootScope.$on('$stateChangeStart', function(evt, toState) {
    if (!toState.data) return;
    // Access directly
    if (toState.data.auth === true) {
      // do authy stuff
    }
    // Prototypal properties not enumerable using Object.keys()
    for (var key in toState.data) {
      console.log('data key: " + key + " = " + toState.data[key]);
    });
  });
});
```

## Resolve `this` binding

Resolve no longer binds `this` to the state object.

No workaround provided.

## Dropping support for IE8

No workaround provided.
