---
title: "Views"
layout: single
excerpt: "UI-Router view definitions"

sitemap: true
permalink: /guide/ng1-views
---

{% include toc icon="columns" title="Views" %}

# Defining views

UI-Router for Angular 1 offers a variety of options for defining a view.

## Angular 1.5+ `.component()`

We encourage developers to use [Angular 1.5+ components](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/component).
A component pairs a controller and template together as a single unit with well defined inputs.  

Create a component for your state using the Angular 1.5 `.component()` method.  This component should 
implement the desired UI look and behavior for the view.

```js
var fooTemplate = "<ul><li ng-repeat="foo in $ctrl.fooData">{{foo.name}}</li></ul>";
myApp.component('fooComponent', {
  template: fooTemplate,
  controller: function() { },
  bindings: { 
    fooData: '<'
  }
});
```

In the state definition, set the `component:` property to the name of your component.

```js
var fooState = {
  name: 'foo',
  url: '/foo',
  component: 'fooComponent',
  resolve: {
    fooData: (FooService) => FooService.list()
  }
}
```

UI-Router finds the correct `<ui-view>` viewport and puts the `fooComponent` in it.

We will learn more about `bindings` and `resolve` in the [Resolve Section](/tutorial/resolve).
{: .notice--info}

### Template+Controller

UI-Router works best using components, and we *highly recommend you use them*.

However, you can also pair templates and controllers without using a `component`.  Set 
the `template:` and `controller:` properties on the state definition.

```js
var fooTemplate = "<ul><li ng-repeat="foo in $ctrl.fooData">{{foo.name}}</li></ul>";
var fooState = {
  name: 'foo',
  url: '/foo',
  template: fooTemplate,
  controller: function(fooData) {
    this.fooData = fooData;
  },
  controllerAs: '$ctrl',
  resolve: {
    fooData: (FooService) => FooService.list()
  }
}
```

UI-Router finds the `<ui-view>` and puts the template+controller combination in it.  

Although we used an inline `template:` here, you can instead specify `templateUrl: "/path/to/template.html"`
to use an external template.
{: .notice--info}

Although we used an inline controller here, you can instead specify `controller: 'FooController'` to use a 
named controller that you've registered elsewhere.
{: .notice--info}

When using template+controller you can specify `controllerAs` to alias the controller object in your templates.
[Read more about controllerAs](https://toddmotto.com/digging-into-angulars-controller-as-syntax/)
{: .notice--info}
