---
title: "Guide: Route to Component"
layout: single
excerpt: "This guide discusses routing directly to Angular 1.5 components"
sitemap: true
permalink: /guide/ng1/route-to-component
---

{% include toc icon="columns" title="Route to Component" %}

UI-Router for Angular 1 version 1.0 introduced the ability to route directly to 
[Angular 1.5+ components](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/component).

Although UI-Router has always allowed views to be defined as arbitrary `template` and `controller` combinations, we
highly recommend that the Angular 1.5 component model is adopted instead.  

In this guide, we'll cover how to route to Angular 1.5 components and how to supply them with resolve data.


# Angular 1.5 .`component()`

An Angular 1.5 component is a reusable piece of a web page, which encapsulates both markup and behavior.
A component is self-contained; it does not access `$scope` values from parent elements, nor does it provide values on `$scope` for children to access.
A component gets all its input data from a parent component as explicit property bindings via attributes in the parent's template.
Any outputs (for communication to the parent) is done using event callbacks, also via attributes in the parent template.

In addition to inputs and output bindings, a component also has lifecycle hooks.

The component model from Angular 1.5 aligns closely with the component model from Angular 2.
From a high level, it even has much in common with even React's or Web Component's models.
This level of parity between frameworks allows you to reason about application structure in a similar way, no matter what framework you are using.
{: .notice--info}

To learn more about Angular 1.5 components, refer to the [official docs](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/component)
and read a [blog or two](https://www.google.com/search?q=angular+1.5+component+blog&oq=angular+1.5+component+blog).

# UI-Router Legacy

UI-Router applications are defined as a tree of states.
Each state typically has one or more views.

In legacy UI-Router, the only way to define a view was to provide a `template` and a `controller`.
The `template` provided the DOM layout, while the `controller` injected services and resolve data, and implemented logic required to make the view work.

A typical legacy (non-component) state definition might look like this:

```js
.state('fooState', {
  url: '/foo/:fooId',
  resolve: {
    fooValue: function($stateParams, $http) {
      return $http.get('/api/foo/' + $stateParams.fooId)
          .then(function(resp) { return resp.data; });
    }
  },
  template: '/partials/foo.html',
  controller: 'FooController'
});
```
  
Where `fooController.js` is: 

```js
.controller('FooController', function(fooValue, $scope) {
   $scope.foo = fooValue;
});
```

And `/partials/foo.html` is:

```html
<h1>{{ foo.name }}</hi>
<ul>
  <li ng-repeat="bar in foo.bars">
    
    {{ bar.name }}
  </li>
</ul>
```



