---
layout: post
excerpt: UI-Router 1.0.0-beta.3 is released
comments: true
permalink: /blog/:title/
---

{% include toc icon="columns" title="UI-Router 1.0.0-beta.3" %}

This beta.3 release primarily adds support for Angular 2.0.0 final.


[Angular 1 Tutorials](https://ui-router.github.io/ng1/tutorial/helloworld)

[Angular 2 Tutorials](https://ui-router.github.io/ng2/tutorial/helloworld)


## Bug fixes in core

We fixed some issues in ui-router-core related to resolves and to activating/deactivating views.
Thanks to those who have been reporting issues against the 1.0 code!

See the [Full changelog](https://github.com/angular-ui/ui-router/releases/tag/1.0.0-beta.3) for details.

## RoadMap

1.0.0-beta.3 is the last scheduled stop before UI-Router 1.0 final!

#### Angular 1

UI-Router 1.0 for Angular 1 is looking pretty solid.
We recommend users upgrade to beta.3 immediately.

#### Angular 2

We have one major item left on the Angular 2  todo list: Ahead of time compile support.
We expect to support AoT in the near future (weeks to months).

#### Codebases

We'll be moving the ui-router-core codebase out from `angular-ui/ui-router` to `ui-router/core`.

We'll also be moving the ng2 code to its own repository.


## Angular 2 Bootstrapping (Breaking Change)

We added support for `NgModule` in beta.2.
However, we received feedback that the custom `@UIRouterModule` decorator in beta.2 wouldn't be sufficient.
In beta.3, we've switched to an approach that closesly resembles the Angular 2 component router.

In your app's bootstrap, import a `UIRouterModule.forRoot()`.
In feature modules and lazy loaded feature modules, use `UIRouterModule.forChild()`.

Unlike the beta.2 decorator, all components (even routed components) must be listed in `declarations:`.
{: .notice--info}

```
@NgModule({
  imports: [
    UIRouterModule.forRoot({
      states: INITIAL_STATES,
      useHash: true,
      configClass: MyUIRouterConfig
    }),
    BrowserModule,
    FeatureModule,
  ],
  declarations: INITIAL_COMPONENTS
})
class RootAppModule {}

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    UIRouterModule.forChild({
      states: FEATURE_STATES,
      configClass: FeatureConfig
    }),
    CommonModule,
  ],
  declarations: FEATURE_COMPONENTS
})
```

You can provide the `forRoot()` factory method an object with some declarative UI-Router configuration.

Both the `forRoot()` and `forChild()` factories can be provided a Service Class. 
The class will be instantiated by the dependency injector.
You can inject dependencies and perform any imperative feature module configuration (much like beta.2's UIRouterConfig).

```js
@Injectable()
class FeatureConfig {
  constructor(router: UIRouter) {
    router.urlMatcherFactory.type('datetime', DateTimeParamType);
  }
}
```

For a more detailed example of how to bootstrap your application, please see the 
[quickstart-ng2 repository](https://github.com/ui-router/quickstart-ng2)
