---
layout: post
comments: true
---

## UI-Router 1.0.0-beta.2

UI-Router is rapidly approching approaching a final release of 1.0.0.

This beta.2 release addresses many issues reported against angular 1.

### Lazy Loading/Future States

Lazy loading of states is now officially supported using "Future States".
Future states are a concept borrowed from [UI-Router Extras for legacy UI-Router](http://christopherthielen.github.io/ui-router-extras/#/future)

A future state is a temporary placeholder state.
When the full state is finally loaded, the placeholder is replaced with the full state.

Temporary future states only have a `name`, a `url`, and a `lazyLoad` function which promises to lazy load the state.

Note: a future state can be responsible for loading a single full state that will replace the placeholder.
However, a future state can act as a placeholder for an entire tree of states, which are all loaded by the future state's `lazyLoad` function.
{: .notice--info}

When a transition to a future state is initiated, the transition is paused and the `lazyLoad` function is invoked.
Once the code has been loaded, the lazy load hook will retry the original transition.

---

If we wanted to lazy load the Contacts feature, we can register a future state:

```
let futureContactsState = {
  name: 'contacts',
  url: '/contacts',
  lazyLoad: () => System.import('./contacts.module')
}
```

The `contacts.module.js` file (or bundle) and its `require`d/`import`ed dependencies loads all feature's code.
This should include states, services, components, etc.

The lazy loading hook is framework agnostic.
For Angular 1, we recommend using [ocLazyLoad](oclazyload.readme.io).
Angular 2 lazy loading occurs via `NgModule`.
The details are outlined below.

### Angular 2 NgModule

In beta.2, we added support for the new `NgModule` system in Angular 2.0.0-rc.5+.


#### UIRouterModule 

We recommend creating modules for each application feature, which often involves a tree of states.
To define a UI-Router Module, use the special `@UIRouterModule` decorator (instead of `@NgModule`).

A module created with `@UIRouterModule` acts just like a module created with `@NgModule`, but has some additions.
{: .notice--info}

- The `@UIRouterModule` decorator provides DI tokens for the UI-Router Services (such as `StateService` and `TransitionService`).
- It enables the [UI-Router directives](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/modules/ng2_directives.html) for other components in the module.
- It allows the module to declare its [states](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/ng2.ng2statedeclaration.html).
- It enables automatic registration of states at bootstrap and lazy load (no need for `INITIAL_STATES.forEach(state => stateRegistry.register(state))`.
- It adds any routed components (from the `states` array) to the `declarations:` and `entryComponents:` lists, so they will be compiled and available.

```
@UIRouterModule({
  states: [ contactsState, contactsListState, contactsDetailState ]
})
class MyFeatureModule {}
```

#### Bootstrapping

The root module should provide UIRouter itself using [`provideUIRouter`](
The UIRouter Config class may be supplied using the first argument.

```
@UIRouterModule({
  imports: [BrowserModule],
  providers: [
      provideUIRouter({ configClass: MyUIRouterConfigClass })
  ],
  states: [homeState]
})
class RootAppModule {}
```

#### Lazy loading

A `UIRouterModule` can also be lazy loaded using the new "Future State" feature.
Create a placeholder state with a `lazyLoad` property which uses the `loadNgModule` lazy load helper.

```
let futureContactsState = {
  name: 'contacts',
  url: '/contacts',
  lazyLoad: loadNgModule('./contacts.module')
}
```

Then, define `ContactsModule` in `contacts.module.ts` and export it as default.

```
@UIRouterModule({
  states: [ contactsState, contactsListState, contactsDetailState ]
})
export default class ContactsModule {};
```

Provide an implementation of the [`NgModuleFactoryLoader`](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/core/index/NgModuleFactoryLoader-class.html) which knows how to load the NgModuleFactory.
Angular supplies a factory load for SystemJS: [`SystemJsNgModuleLoader`](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/core/index/SystemJsNgModuleLoader-class.html)

```
@UIRouterModule({
  imports: [BrowserModule],
  providers: [
      provideUIRouter({ configClass: MyUIRouterConfigClass }),
      { provide: NgModuleFactoryLoader, useClass: SystemJsNgModuleLoader }
  ],
  states: [homeState]
})
class RootAppModule {}
```

Although Angular does not provide other `NgModuleFactoryLoader`s, they are horribly difficult to create.
Read the [source code for the SystemJSNgModuleLoader](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/d26a82749473803fbcbd735da46736779367521c/modules/%40angular/core/src/linker/system_js_ng_module_factory_loader.ts#L48-L82) to learn how.
I expect other loaders to appear in the wild soon, or additional blessed loaders (i.e., for webpack) from the Angular team.
{: .notice--info }

---

Angular 2 users should look over:

- the recent changes to https://github.com/ui-router/quickstart-ng2/ 
- The [UIRouterConfig docs](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/classes/ng2.uirouterconfig.html)
- The [provideUIRouter docs](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/modules/ng2.html#provideuirouter)
- The [lazyLoad docs](https://ui-router.github.io/docs/latest/interfaces/state.statedeclaration.html#lazyload)

### Angular 2 Rx / Observables

In beta.2, we also added initial support for a reactive approach to UI-Router apps.
We added four observables to `UIRouterGlobals` to monitor the state of the router.

- `states$`: An `Observable<StatesChangedEvent>`. Subscribers are notified of state registration and deregistration.
- `start$`: An `Observable<Transition>`: Subscribers are notified when a new transition starts.
- `success$`: An `Observable<Transition>`: Subscribers are notified when a new transition finishes successfully.
- `params$`: An `Observable<{ [paramName: string]: any }>`: Subscribers are notified of the parameters of the latest successful transition.

#### Angular 1 + Angular 2 Hybrid

Hybrid Angular 1/Angular 2 users should look over the recent changes to https://github.com/ui-router/sample-app-ng1-to-ng2

Note: Due to an [apparent bug in rc.6](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/11280), ng1-to-ng2 users MUST stick to rc.5 for now.
{: .notice--info}
