---
title: "About States"
layout: single
excerpt: "The basic building block of a ui-router application is a state."
sitemap: true
permalink: /about/states
---

UI-Router applications behave like a [state machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/state_machine).

Think about each feature of your application as a set of states.  Only one state can be active at one time.
We can transition from one state to another to activate a different feature of our application.  

## UI-Router States

The basic building block of a UI-Router application is a UI-Router state.  
A UI-Router state usually corresponds to a "place" in the application in terms of the overall UI and navigation. 
Some examples of states might be 
<code>dashboard</code>, <code>messages</code>, <code>shoppingcart</code>, or <code>blogentry</code>. 

A state has properties that drive the functionality of the application when that state is active.

<div class="notice--info" markdown="1">
#### State Properties

name
:   A name for the state, providing a way to refer to the state

views
:   How the UI will look and behave

url
:   What the browser's URL will be

params
:   Parameter values that the state requires (such as <code>blog-post-id</code>)

resolve
:   The actual data the state requires (often fetched, asynchronously, from the backend using a parameter value)
</div>


## Nested States

Unlike states in a traditional [*state machine*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/state_machine),  UI-Router 
states can be nested inside each other.  A parent state can have multiple children, forming a tree of states.  

Child states can be used to drill down from a more general feature to more specific one, or to implement
a master/detail pattern.  For instance, you might have a parent state called <code>contacts</code> which defines
the contacts module, and renders a list of all the contacts. 

<div class="notice--info" markdown="1">
#### Nested views within nested states
The child state's view usually renders inside a viewport that the parent 
state created.  This is referred to as Nested Views.
</div>

Then, you might have two child states <code>contacts.contact</code> (to view a specific contact's details) 
and <code>contacts.new</code> (to create a new contact). These substates share the common parent state 
<code>contacts</code> and inherit data and behavior from the parent.  They are rendered inside the UI for the
parent state.

<video controls="controls" autoplay loop>
  <source src="/assets/about/contacts_states.mov.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  <source src="/assets/about/contacts_states.mov.webm" type="video/webm">
</video>

<div class="notice--info" markdown="1">
#### State-first approach

UI-Router's state based approach encourages you to think primarily about your application's functionality.  The state
tree defines the application's functionality structure. The URL and views (i.e., the component tree) are simply
artifacts of the active state.

#### Although states _generally have URLs_, they are optional.

You might create some child states without URLs, if it doesn't make sense to make sense to bookmark those child states.
The state machine transitions between url-less states as usual, but does not update the url when complete.  You still get
all the other benefits of a state transition such as parameters, resolve, and lifecycle hooks.

#### Although states _generally have views_, they are optional.

You might create a parent state for the sole purpose of adding data or behaviors to a branch of your application.  
For instance, you might create a state called <code>admin</code> and then child states for each
administration function in your app.  The parent <code>admin</code> state could be used to restrict access to the 
entire tree of child states, but provide no UI itself.

</div>


## Transitions

If the app's current state is <code>contacts</code> and the user wants to switch to the
<code>prefs</code> state, the UI-Router state machine creates and runs a Transition from the <code>contacts</code>
state to the <code>prefs</code> state.


### Atomic 

These transitions are essentially [atomic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atomicity_(database_systems)).  When 
transitioning from <code>contacts> to <code>prefs</code>, either the *entire transition succeeds* and the application's 
current state is now <code>prefs</code>, or the *entire transition fails* and the application remains in the 
<code>contacts</code> state.

### Lifecycle

Transitions have a lifecycle, from creation to success or failure. That lifecycle is exposed to the application 
developer as a set of transition hooks.  The hooks allow you to tap into each stage of the transition and cancel
or alter the transition.

To learn more about transition hooks, read the Transition section of the Guide and the API documentation for IHookRegistry.


